# Multi-Scale based Optic Flow Computation with Deep Energy
### A CNN based computation of Optic Flow by unsupervised means using Multi-Scale Deep Energy Reduction

## Abstract
Advancement in Deep Learning has opened a portal for a variety of applications. Such an application includes image analysis and synthesis that range from image-to-image tasks such as denoising, in-painting, and segmentation to classification with other tasks. In our work, we used the idea of using Deep Energy to train a model for computing optic flow field, given a pair of subsequent frames. This task is relevant in self-driving technology, stereo reconstruction, and image registration. Our work uses variational calculus to design an energy loss function to train a deep learning model without using ground truths. It is similar to the Physics-Informed Neural Networks, where the goal is to use the PDEs to minimize the residual loss and allow the model to train from the given loss by updating its corresponding weights. The dataset consists of synthetic video frames provided by MPI-Sintel generated using Blender software. 

## Introduction
For decades researchers came up with different numerical schemes and algorithms which can compute optic flow given a pair of subsequent frames. These were slower because the algorithm computes the optic flow for each pair of frames in several iterations. They come in the category of local and global techniques with advantages and disadvantages. [7] proposed the first local method where they assumed that the brightness of pixels is equal for both frames given the illumination is constant. With this assumption, we can draw an optic flow constraint that is solved to compute the components of the flow field by using a window. Having a window,  the linear system of equations is overdetermined because we assume the flow fields are equal in the window. Then it is solved via the least square methods.

At the same time, [6] proposed a global technique that uses variational calculus which converts the flow field computation into a minimization task. They derived an energy functional that is minimized to solve for the components of the flow field by using similar assumptions as for the local method with an addition of a smoothness assumption. In such an assumption, the resulting optic flow is smooth and does not have discontinuities. 

These methods use explicit numerical schemes where the algorithm has to be iterated several times for a given pair of frames to compute the respective optic flow. The number of iterations can range from 1000 to 100000 or more. For this reason, implementing it for real-time optic flow computation is cumbersome. So researchers came up with techniques that use deep learning and variational energy to train the model for computing the flow fields. Then the trained model can perform real-time optic flow computation. 

Variational energy as the loss function comes under the domain of unsupervised learning. In the supervised approach, we use the ground truth to model the loss function that performs better than the unsupervised approach in most cases. But there are more benefits to an unsupervised approach. For instance, providing the model with unannotated data is efficient. The model can be updated when deployed in an application. So this allows for continuous learning with newer data and better performance with time.

## Related Works
